
                   [Illustration: The COFFEE Tree.]




                                  THE
                            VIRTUE and USE
                                  OF
                                COFFEE,
                          With Regard to the
                               _PLAGUE_,
                               And Other
                        Infectious Distempers:

                              CONTAINING

                  The most Remarkable Observations of
                the Greatest Men in _Europe_ concerning
                  it, from the first Knowledge of it,
                      down to this Present Time.

                         To which is Prefix’d,
               An Exact Figure of the Tree, Flower, and
                      Fruit, taken from the Life.


                     By R. BRADLEY, Fellow of the
                            Royal Society.


                               _LONDON_,

             Printed by EMAN. MATTHEWS, at the _Bible_ in
            _Pater-noster-Row_; and W. MEARS, at the _Lamb_
                   without _Temple-Bar_. M.DCC.XXI.

                          (Price Six-Pence.)





                                  TO

                         The Right Honourable

                                  THE

                     Lords Spiritual and Temporal,

                         And to the Honourable

                   The COMMONS of _Great Britain_ in
                         Parliament Assembled,

                                 THIS

                                HISTORY

                                  OF

                                COFFEE

                       Is most humbly Inscribed,

                                  BY

                             Your HONOURS

                          Most Obedient, and

                    Most Humble Servant to command,


                           RICHARD BRADLEY.

[Illustration]




PREFACE.


_AT this time, when every Nation in_ Europe _is under the melancholy
Apprehension of an approaching Plague or Pestilence, I think it the
Business of every Man to contribute, to the utmost of his Capacity, such
Observations, as may tend to the Service of the Publick. Upon this foot,
I have some Months since published my Thoughts of the Plague in general,
upon an Hypothesis which many of the Learned concur with, tho’ some few
dissent from it: However, I find, that the Remedies prescribed by the
Physicians of both Opinions, are little different from each other. It is
remark’d by several Learned Men abroad, that Coffee is of excellent Use
in the time of Pestilence, and contributes greatly to prevent the
spreading of Infection: And one of them, in a Letter to me, observes,
that in some Parts of_ Turkey, _where the Plague is almost constant, it
is seldom mortal in those Families, who are rich enough to enjoy the
free Use of Coffee, but that the Poorer Sort, who want that Benefit,
seldom escape. Again, the same Person observes, that Coffee is not
subject to be destroy’d by any Insect, or is subject to rot, as most
other Seeds or Grains will do; and therefore justly concludes, that it
is of great Virtue and Use in all Distempers, which are supposed to be
occasioned by Insects, or unwholesome Air. And it is likely, if the true
Virtue and Use of Coffee had been known in_ London _in the Year 1665,
when the Plague raged there, that Dr._ Hodges, _and other Learned Men of
that time, would have recommended it. But since it is now become a
Liquor known to most people, I have thought fit to republish its
History, with several Additions and Remarks; especially how far it is
useful in Pestilential Cases, with an Account of the best Method of
roasting the Berries, and preserving them after roasting: And for the
Satisfaction of the Curious, have prefix’d a Figure of the Tree,
Flower, and Fruit, which I delineated from a growing Tree in the_
Amsterdam _Gardens._

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




AN
Historical Account
OF
_COFFEE_.


COFFEE, of late Years, is grown so much in request throughout _England_,
_Holland_, and other Parts of _Europe_, that I need say little to
recommend its History to the World: The general Use of it rather seems
to command this Work, that by our having a more familiar Knowledge of
it, we may relish it the better. And again, what yet prompts me further
to this Undertaking, is the Opportunity I have at this time to present
the World with a perfect Figure of the _Tree_ that produces this
celebrated _Fruit_; which is not done here by any random Guess, or
according to the uncertain Report of others, but drawn by my own Hand
from a growing Tree.

AND that I may observe some sort of Method in the Prosecution of my
Discourse, I shall, in the first place, give my Reader the Names and
Descriptions of it, from the several Authors who have mentioned it; and
then I shall offer a more exact Account, from my own Knowledge, of the
_Plant_, _Flower_, and _Fruit_, for the better understanding of the
aforesaid Figure: after which, I shall set down the Time and Manner of
its first Appearance in _England_, with its Virtues and Uses. To which I
shall add some necessary Observations relating to the Original Place of
its Growth, and Manner of Trading for it; and conclude with some Remarks
I have made of its Culture in the _Amsterdam_ Garden.

_JACOB COTOVICUS_, in his Travels to _Jerusalem_, _Anno 1598._ mentions
the _Coffee_ to have been at that time a Drink much in use amongst the
_Turks_; and tells us, that some of the _Arabians_ called it _Cahua_,
and others _Bunnu_ and _Bunchi_, but gives us no Description of the
Plant. He is the first Author that I find to have mentioned this Liquor.

_PROSPER ALPINUS_, a Physician of _Venice_, in his Book of _Egyptian
Plants_, makes mention of the _Tree_, and gives us an imperfect Cut of
it: He tells us, that he first saw it in a Garden belonging to a Captain
of the Janizaries at _Grand Cairo_, brought from _Arabia Felix_, and
planted there as a great Rarity: It is, saith he, like the _Euonymus_ or
_Prickle-Timber_, but with Leaves thicker, harder, and greener. Of the
Fruit (called _Buna_) the _Turks_ and _Arabs_ make a Decoction or Drink,
which they use instead of Wine, and is called _Coava_.

_PALUDAMUS_, after him, mentions it by the Name of _Choava_; and
_Rauwolfius_ calls it _Chaube_; but neither of them do make any Remarks
upon it, that are worthy to be communicated to my Reader; for these
Authors writ near a hundred Years since, when _Coffee_ was little known
to the _Europeans_.

_SANDYS_, in his Travels through the _Turkish_ Empire, met with this
Drink at _Constantinople_: He says, “It was sold in many publick Places
there, which he calls _Coffa-Houses_, where the _Turks_ sit chatting
most of the Day, and sip of a Drink called _Coffa_, in little China
Dishes, as hot as they can suffer it; black as Soot, and tasting not
much unlike it.” He believes it to be that black Broth, which was in use
amongst the _Lacedemonians_.

_PARKINSON_, in his _Theatr. Botanic._ _pag. 1622._ gives us a very
indifferent Figure of it, calling the _Tree_, _Arbor Bon_, and tells us,
the _Fruit_ is somewhat larger than a Hazel-Nut, pointed at the
Extremities, and of a greyish Ash-Colour; that each Berry contains two
white Seeds, which the _Turks_ make Drink of, and is in great Esteem
amongst them.

_JOHN BAUHINE_ calls it _Bon_ vel _Ban Arbor_.

_CASPER BAUHINE_ describes it thus; _Euonymo Similis Ægyptica fructu
Baccis Lauri simili_.

Mr. _RAY_, in his _Histor. Plantar._ _pag. 1691._ calls it _Coffee
Frutex_, _ex cujus Fructu fit Potus_. He had not seen the _Plant_, but
discourses largely on its Virtues, which I shall give an Account of in
the proper Place.

MONSIEUR _PONCETT_, in his Voyage to _Æthiopia_, makes it a Native of
that Country; it was, as he says, transplanted from thence to _Arabia
Felix_, and at this time the _Æthiopians_ cultivate it only as a
Curiosity: he describes it to be like the _Myrtle_ in its Leaves, but
larger and tufted; the _Fruit_ like _Pistachio_ Nut, green at first, and
of a darker Colour when it is ripe: and this they call _Coffee_.

MANY others have mentioned the _Fruit_ to be of a _Citron_ Colour, and
of a Greyish White: but it appears plain to me, they have never seen it
in its Prosperity, as I have done; of which my Reader may be satisfied,
when he compares such Accounts with the Description I shall give of it.

DR. _COMELIN_, _Botanick_ Professor at _Amsterdam_, in his Lectures on
_Plants_, places this _Tree_ among the _Jessamines_, and compares the
Leaf to that of our common _Chesnut_; but as that Gentleman has not yet
printed any Account of it, I shall not therefore attempt to publish the
Name at large, which he has given it. He is undoubtedly in the right to
class it with the _Jessamines_; but I rather join in Opinion with my
learned Friend Mr. _Petiver_, that the Leaf is more like to that of the
_Laurus Vulgaris_, or common _Bay_, but larger.

THUS having given a View of what has been mentioned by the several
Authors concerning the Name and Description of this _Tree_, I shall
proceed to describe it from the Knowledge I have of it.

IN the _Physick-Garden_ of _Amsterdam_ are two _Coffee-Trees_ above
seventeen foot high, which have been for some time in a bearing State,
and have, at most Seasons, _Fruit_ upon them; from one of these _Trees_
I design’d the Figure prefix’d to this Treatise, which in every Point
resembles the Branch I took it from, except only the Size, which ought
to be one third part bigger to make it equal with the Life.

THE _Tree_ is of very quick Growth, and naturally inclinable to shoot
upright; ’tis reported, that in its native Country it generally attains
to the height of forty or fifty foot, although the Stem, in the thickest
part, does not exceed five Inches in Diameter. The Leaves are
Bi-composite (or set in cross Pairs at the Joints) and not unlike those
of the common _Bay_, but curl’d at the Edges, and inclinable to hang
down. The _Flowers_ put forth in Clusters at the Joints, towards the
Extremities of the Branches; they make their first Appearance in _July_,
and are in Figure, Size, and Colour the same with those of the common
_Jessamine_, with the Addition only of five yellow _Apices_, which hang
loosely on the Top of the Flower, and a _Style_ which projects near half
an Inch above it: their Smell is faint, and little worth our Notice.

ABOUT _October_ these Trees have done blowing, and then the Green Fruit
appear, which hang on them till the _July_ following before they are
ripe; they resemble at that time the Berries of the _Lauro-Cerasus_, or
_Bay-Cherry_, and are much of the same Shape and Colour (_i.e._ of a
dark Red) but instead of a single Stone, these have two Kernels, which
split in the middle like the _Bay-berries_ of the _Shops_.

THE _Fruit_ being come to its Perfection, is gathered and prepared
either for making Drink, or for propagating other Plants. For the first
of these Uses they are spread on Mats, in the open Sun, to dry and
harden, which requires some time to accomplish; they are afterwards
rolled to and fro in rough Baskets to get off the Husks, and then tost
in an airy Place to clean them. Being thus ordered, they are ready for
the Roaster, who fits them for our Use.

MONSIEUR _BERNIER_ tells us, that in the roasting of the Berries chiefly
depends the Goodness of the Liquor; and affirms, that at _Grand Cairo_,
(where there were above a thousand _Coffee-Houses_) there was but two
Persons who rightly understood that Art.

I HAVE taken some pains to experience the best Method of roasting it,
and find none so good as by an Iron Vessel made to turn on a Spit, and
it may be roasted before a clear Fire, or over a Charcoal Fire: and here
every Berry has an equal share of Heat; and I like it roasted in a
middle way, not overburnt. I would recommend therefore the roasting of
it to every particular Family in _England_, they being then most secure
from having any damaged Berries, or any Art used to increase the Weight,
which is very injurious to the Drinkers of Coffee. Most Persons of
Distinction in _Holland_ roast their own Berries.

MONSIEUR _DU FOUR_, a Merchant of _Lyons_, in his Treatise of this
Liquor, recommends to us, that the Decoction be prepared in _Earthen_ or
_Stone_ Vessels, as preferable to those of _Tin_, _Copper_, or any other
Metal; which (says he) take from it much of its Flavour and Goodness.
And an ingenious Friend of mine observes, that Boiling of it evaporates
too much the fine Spirits; for which reason he advises us to pour
boiling Water upon the Powder, and let it stand to infuse four or five
Minutes before the Fire: and this Method, in my Judgment, much exceeds
the common way of preparing it.

SOME of the most curious Coffee-drinkers have informed me, that as soon
as they have reduced the Berries to Powder, ’tis the best way to put the
fresh-ground Coffee into the Coffee-Pot, which should be either of Stone
or Silver; and let it stand over the Fire a Minute or two, before they
pour the Water upon it: Others, who have not the Opportunity of getting
their Berries fresh roasted, recommend the drying and warming them
before the Fire, immediately before they grind them. And indeed both
these ways I find contribute greatly to the good Flavour of the Liquor;
but whether we prepare this Liquor by Decoction or Infusion, it commonly
remains thick and troubled for some Minutes after it is made, unless we
pour into it a Spoonful or two of cold Water, which immediately
precipitates the more heavy Parts to the bottom, and renders it clear
enough for drinking. In travelling I have often found my Account in
packing the Powder of fresh-roasted Coffee in Bottles, which for more
than twenty days has preserved its Strength and Goodness; which I
mention for the sake of those who have been so much used to drink Coffee
in the Morning, that they have not their Health without it, or have been
forced to take up with ill-tasted damaged Stuff in some Country Village.
I am the more careful to make this Remark, because I have sometimes been
a Sufferer on this Account, and I would advance, as much as possible,
the Content of Mankind.

THE first Knowledge and Use of _Coffee_ is not certainly known; but,
according to _Banesius_, it was discovered by mere Accident: He tells
us, “It is the common Tradition amongst the _Eastern_ People, that a
certain Keeper of Camels or Goats in _Arabia Felix_, complained to the
Religious of a Monastery in those Parts, that his Herds, twice or thrice
a Week, not only kept awake all Night long, but spent it in frisking and
dancing in an unusual manner. The Prior of the Monastery, led by his
Curiosity, and weighing the Matter, believed that this must happen from
the Food of these Creatures. Marking therefore diligently that very
Night, in company with one of his Monks, the very Place where the Goats
or Camels pastured, when they danced; found there certain Shrubs or
Bushes, on the Fruit of Berries, of which they fed. He resolved to try
the Virtues of these Berries himself; thereupon boiling them in Water,
and drinking thereof, he found, by Experience, it kept him awake in the
Night. Hence it happened that he enjoined those of his Monastery the
daily Use of it; for this procuring Watchfulness, made them more readily
and surely attend their Devotions, which they were obliged to perform in
the Night. When by this frequent use of it, they daily experienced its
Wholesomness, and how effectually it conduced to the preserving them in
perfect Health, the Drink grew in request throughout the whole Kingdom;
and, in progress of time, other Nations and Provinces of the _East_ fell
into the use of it.”[A]

THIS Story may very likely have given rise to that Opinion so generally
receiv’d amongst the _Italians_, That the Use of _Coffee_ was first
discover’d and brought out of _Asia_ into _Europe_ by some _Fryers_.

THE same Author mentions, “That some among the _Turks_, in a sort of
Thankfulness to these Monks, have sett and peculiar daily Orisons for
_Sciadly_ and _Aidrus_, which they believe are the Names of the Monks
beforemention’d.”

BUT it is a more receiv’d Opinion throughout the _Turkish Empire_, that
an _Angel_ taught the Use of this _Coffee-Drink_ to a _Mussel-man_, or
true Believer: however, of this we are certain, the Use of it was not
known in _England_, till the Year 1657; at which time Mr. _Daniel
Edwards_, a _Turkey_-Merchant, in his Return from _Smyrna_ to _London_,
brought over with him one _Pasqua Rosee_, a _Ragusean Greek_, who was
used to prepare this Liquor for him every Morning: The Novelty of it
drew so great Resort to his House, that he lost all the Fore-part of
the Day by it; insomuch that he thought it expedient to rid himself of
this Trouble, by allowing his _Greek_ Servant (in conjunction with his
Son-in-law’s _Coachman_) to make and sell it publickly. They set up
their _Coffee-House_ in _St. Michael’s Alley_ in _Cornhill_, which was
the first in _London_. But some small time after, these Partners fell
out and parted; and the _Coachman_ got leave to pitch a _Tent_ in _St.
Michael_’s Church-yard, and there to sell his _Coffee_ in opposition to
_Pasqua_, as appears by a Letter written at that time by a curious
Gentleman, who lately communicated it to me.

AND thus was the Use of _Coffee_ first introduced amongst us. The
Cheapness of it, with the Conveniencies in this Way of meeting (being
preferable to those in Taverns and Ale-Houses) soon increas’d its
Drinkers; and other _Coffee-Houses_ were set up in most Parts of the
Kingdom: so that, in a few Years, it did not only gain a general Esteem
with us, but also became one of the most valuable Commodities imported
by the _East-India_ and _Turkey_ Companies.

WE may here observe, That King _Charles_ II. finding the daily Increase
of _Coffee-Houses_, and that at those Places People were apt to talk too
freely of the State, endeavour’d the suppressing of them: but the Judges
being consulted, they declared it could not be done by Law; and only
ended in laying a Tax on them.

OF _its Vertues_; It is noted, That the _Arabs_, and others of the
_Eastern_ People, in the Summer-Season, use only a Decoction made of the
outside Husks of this _Fruit_; and in the cooler Seasons make use of the
Kernels, esteeming the first to be cooling, and the other to be of a
hotter Nature. _Veslingius_ seems to be of their opinion, in his Notes
on _Alpinus_, where he tells us, The Husk and Kernel of this _Berry_
have different Qualities; the first he esteems cold and dry, and the
latter to be moderately warm: And this Assertion is likewise confirm’d
to us, by _Peter de la Valle_.

Dr. _Lemery_ of _Paris_, speaking of _Coffee_, as it is in use amongst
the _Europeans_, tells us, It is of an excellent drying Quality,
comforts the Brain, and dries up Crudities in the Stomach. Mr. _Ray_
mentions it to be of singular Use and Efficacy to such as are afflicted
with Pains in the _Head_, _Vertigo_, _Lethargy_, and _Coughs_: it has a
good Effect on _moist_ and _cold Constitutions_; but on the other hand,
he disallows the Use of it to such as are Paralytick, and likewise such
as are troubled with _Melancholy Vapours_, or have _Hot Brains_.

OTHER Authors assert, it cures _Consumptions_, _Swooning Fits_, and the
_Rickets_; and that it helps _Digestion_, rarefies the _Blood_,
suppresses _Vapours_, gives Life and Gayety to the _Spirits_, prevents
_Sleepiness_ after eating, provokes _Urine_ and the _Catamena_. The
_Arabian_ Women drink this Liquor constantly in their Periodical Visits,
and find a good Effect from it. It contracts the _Bowels_, and confirms
the _Tone_ of the Parts, being drank after Victuals, provided it be
fresh made; for if it stands but two or three Hours, it loseth much of
its Virtue. It is prevalent in such as have _Running-Humours_, _Sores_,
or _King’s-Evil_. It is an effectual Remedy against _Worms_ in Children;
so that if the Mother drinks frequently of it when she is With-Child,
the Infant will not be troubled with Worms, during its first Years. ’Tis
allowed to be a strong _Antihypnotick_, greatly dissipating _sleepy
Vapours_, and _Fumes_ of _Wine_. ’Tis likewise useful to such as are
afflicted with _Rheumatick_ or _Gouty Humours_. The _Dutch_ Physicians
commend the Use of it in _Intermitting Fevers_, and hold it to be good
against _Infection_; because of the great Refreshment it gives the
nobler Parts of the Body, and its sudden Effect upon the Spirits, which
are wonderfully recreated by it. And it is apparently the Opinion of all
Physicians who have yet wrote concerning the Plague, That such Bodies
whose Spirits are the most overcome by Fear, are the most subject to
receive Infections. And again, That the Spirits must be refresh’d only
by such Liquors, or Preparations, as will not promote Inflammations. And
of this nature, _say they_, is Coffee, which by a right Use supports the
vital Flame, and defends the Body from Pestilential Infection. And as
such it is generally recommended, as a necessary Drink, at least twice a
day; the first thing in a Morning, and at four in the Afternoon. Now
whether the Hypothesis of venomous Animalcula brought by the Air, or
that of Aerial Atoms, poison’d and rendred unwholesom, be the Cause of
the Pestilence, will be examin’d in another Work; but at present I shall
only say, That most of the Physicians, of both Sects, prescribe the same
Methods of Prevention, and of Cure.

IT has been remark’d by several eminent Men, That in the Countries of
the _East_, where this Liquor is drank plentifully, the Inhabitants of
those Parts are seldom or never troubled with the Stone, Gout, or
Dropsy; which Distempers they imagine to be subdu’d by the powerful
Virtue of this Decoction: but whether this Drink be proper for such as
are afflicted with the Stone, I shall leave to the Judgment of the
Learned, after they have read the following Relation, which I had from a
Gentleman of _Leyden_, and what I believe may be depended upon: A Person
of that University prepared two Gallons of Coffee-Drink, after the rate
of eight Ounces of Powder to a Gallon of Water, and drew a Spirit from
it, and again distilled from that Spirit another, which he set by in
his Study, till he could find some Opportunity to try its Effects. About
eight Months pass’d before he had any Occasion to make use of it, when,
to his great Surprize, he found at the bottom of the Bottle a
Crustaceous or Petrified Matter, so very hard, and so strongly cemented
together, that, notwithstanding his great Skill in Chymistry, he was not
able to dissolve it. And this Case (I think) may well admit of farther
Enquiry, and more especially if we consider the Volatile Spirits
contain’d in Coffee to be one fourth part of the Weight of it, which
appears by so much Loss in the common Way of roasting the Berries.

I SHALL now proceed to give an Account of the Country it comes from,
with some Observations relating to the Mercantine Part.

THAT curious Gentleman, _Robert Balle_ Esq; furnish’d me with the
following Relation, as he had it from a Person that had been upon the
Place, and seen it grow: Coffee, _says he_, is not known to grow
naturally in any Part of the World, but only in _Arabia Felix_, some few
Days Journey Inland from _Moco_, in the Valleys of the _Great
Mountains_, and near the City _Saana_, about twenty Degrees
North-Latitude: The Prince of which, about eighty Years since, beat the
_Turks_ in a Battel near that Place, freed himself from their Yoke under
which he was before, and made himself Independent as at this Day,
permitting great Freedom of Trade to all Nations.

I SHALL here take occasion to remark, wherein lies the Difference
between what we call _Turkey_ and _India Coffee_, and why the latter has
not been esteemed so good as that we receive from _Turkey_.

THE first of these is bought by the _Turks Merchants_, who go up into
the Country where it grows, and there contract for the Fruit of Gardens,
or so many Trees as they have occasion for, (as our Fruit-mongers do for
Cherries in _Kent_.) When it is gathered and prepared, as I have already
mentioned, they bring it upon Camels down to _Juda_, a Port at the
bottom of the _Red-Sea_ (which is the Port to _Grand Cairo_) to be
transported to _Suez_; from thence by Land, about seventy Miles, to
_Grand Cairo_, and so down the _Nile_ to _Alexandria_, where it is
ship’d off for _Asia_ or _Europe_.

THERE commonly comes thus every Year to _Egypt_, from sixty to seventy
thousand Bales of _Coffee_; which may contain, one with the other, about
three hundred weight each.

THE Bashaw of _Cairo_ sets a Price upon it, according to its Abundance
or Scarcity, and the People there make use of it as Money in the Market,
counting so many Berries to an [B]Asper, in proportion to the Value or
Price settled by the Bashaw.

BUT that Sort, which we have under the Character of _India Coffee_, is
bought at _Bettelfukere_, where the _English_, _Dutch_, and _French_, of
late Years, send up Factors to buy the said Commodity, and bring it on
Camels to _Moco_, from whence it is shipped for _Europe_. By which means
(although it is obliged to pass the Line twice) what we now have that
way is little inferiour to _Turkey_; which was formerly the Refuse, or
what the _Turks_ left at _Bettlefukere_.

THE immense Quantity of this Fruit, which is yearly exported from this
one Country to other Parts of the World, is almost incredible; which, as
we are informed, is computed to be about a Million of Bushels, one Year
with another: and although it may seem unreasonable to believe, that
this Country alone should produce it in so great abundance, (considering
how small a Quantity can be gathered from each single Tree) yet with as
much Surprize we may admire how it is possible, that even the Number of
Bushels I have mentioned should be sufficient to answer the vast Demand
for it; since it is certain, that besides the general Esteem it has
gained all over _Europe_, it is not less requested throughout _Africa_
and _Asia_, to their utmost Bounds.

HENCE we may reasonably conjecture what vast Riches must be amass’d by
these _Arabs_, seeing they are the Proprietors of this Commodity, and
thereby command so great a Part of the Wealth of the most opulent
Countries. This part of _Arabia Felix_ is truly (as Mr. _Ray_ observes)
φερώυμος, and merits the most happy Name for its Fertility in rich
Produce. I admire, continues that Author, how so great a Treasure has
remained so long peculiar to one Country, and that neither the Envy nor
Avarice of its Neighbours have tempted them to share in this great
Advantage! But so prudent are its Masters, that on no account will they
suffer either Plant or Seed of it to come alive out of their Dominions;
taking great care to destroy the germinative Faculty of those Berries
they send abroad, and inflicting the most severe Punishments on such as
shall attempt the Transportation of any Plants of it.

BUT notwithstanding this their extraordinary Care and Caution to
preserve this Plant peculiar to themselves, the _Hollanders_, some
Years ago, found means to furnish themselves with it, and have made a
Plantation of it about _Batavia_, in the Island of _Java_, which has
already produced some Tuns of Fruit. From this Plantation they have
lately brought two Trees to _Amsterdam_, which, by the Skill of their
ingenious Gardiner, flourish and bear Fruit in such Perfection, that
several hundred Plants have been raised there from Seeds, ripened at
that Place; and which, from time to time, they transmit to _Surinam_,
and such Places in the _West-Indies_ as are in their possession.

THE Heer _Gerbrand Pancrass_, Commissary of the Garden, and _President_
of the City of _Amsterdam_, did me the Honour to accommodate me with
this great Curiosity, which I sent into _England_, and intrusted to the
care of Mr. _Thomas Fairchild_, a most accurate Gardiner at _Hoxton_.

AND since it has now found its way to _England_, it may be necessary to
offer some proper Directions for its Culture, agreeable with the Method
observed in the _Amsterdam_ Garden.

WHEN we have an Opportunity to propagate these Trees from the Berries,
we must, immediately after they are gathered, carefully take off the
outside Husk, and separate the two Seeds which are found in each; and
set them an Inch deep in Pots of fine Earth, which are already warm in a
Bed prepared with Horse-litter; keeping the Glasses close covered for
six Weeks, and often sprinkling them with Water. From this way of
Management we may expect them to come up in less than two Months time
after Sowing. And then, for their further Improvement, you are only to
remark, they love Warmth, little Air, a light sandy Earth, and much
Water. And this last Hint answers to an Observation of that Great
Naturalist Sir _Hans Sloane_; where he tells us, that the _Arabians_ cut
artificial Channels from the Rivers, on purpose to nourish these Plants.
See _Philosophical Transactions, Numb. 208. pag. 64._

THESE Rules being well observed, we may expect them to bear Fruit in
five Years time from the putting in of the Seed; but in a hotter Clime,
such as _South-Carolina_, or in the _Caribbee-Islands_, much sooner.

IF the Plague should ever come into _England_ (which God forbid) I
recommend to every Person, when they walk out, that they put in their
Mouth a little Piece of Myrrh, as an excellent Preservative from
receiving any Infection; which I shall treat of more largely in another
Work.


_FINIS._

[Illustration]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]


_Books Printed for_ W. MEARS, _at the_ Lamb _without_ Temple-Bar.


1. A Philosophical Account of the Works of Nature; endeavouring to set
forth the several Gradations remarkable in the Mineral, Vegetable, and
Animal Parts of the Creation; tending to the Composition of a Scale of
Life. Containing, I. An Account of the most remarkable Appearances in
Earths and Mineral Bodies. II. What is most remarkable in Plants and
Super-Plants. III. Of immoveable Shell-Fish, and of such as have local
Motion; with curious Observations on the rest of the Fish-kind, in Salt
and Fresh-Waters. IV. Of Animals and Insects, more particularly those of
the Serpent-kind; with several Observations relating to Climates,
Fruit-Trees, _&c._ with a distinct Account of such Lands in _England_ as
are stiled barren, and some Remarks relating to Fish-ponds. Also a
Description of the most curious Gardens in _Europe_, especially in
_Britain_; with some Experiments for the improving of Fruit-Trees and
Flowers, never before made publick. With Directions for the best Method
of pruning Vines, and Instructions for the most expeditious raising of
forward Fruits, with many curious Cuts.

    ---- _All their known Virtue appears
    Productive in Herb, Plant, and Nobler Birth
    Of Creatures Animate, with gradual Life
    Of Growth, Sense, Reason_---- Milton.

    By _Richard Bradley, F. R. S._


2. New Improvements of Planting and Gardening; both Philosophical and
Practical; explaining the Motion of the Sap, and Generation of Plants,
with other Discoveries never before made publick; for the Improvement of
Forest-Trees, Flower-Gardens, or Parterres: with a new Invention,
whereby more Designs of Garden-Plats may be made in an Hour, than can be
found in all the Books now extant: likewise several rare Secrets for the
Improvement of Fruit-Trees, Kitchin-Gardens, and Green House Plants.
The Third Edition corrected. By _Richard Bradley_, Fellow of the Royal
Society.


3. The Gentleman’s and Gardiner’s Kalendar; directing what is necessary
to be done every Month in the Kitchin-Garden, Fruit-Garden, Nursery,
Management of Forest-Trees, Green-House, and Flower-Garden. With
Directions for the making and ordering Hop-Grounds. By _Richard
Bradley_, F. R. S. Also the Design of a Garden-House (finely engraved
after a new manner) contrived purposely for the Good-keeping of Exotick
Plants. Sy Signior _Gallilei_ of _Florence_. The Third Edition. To which
is now added, An Abstract of the several Acts of Parliament, to
encourage the Planting of Timber-Trees, Fruit-Trees, and other Trees for
Ornament, Shelter, or Profit, and for the better Preservation of the
same, and for preventing the burning of Wood, _&c._ Price 2 _s._


4. The History of Succulent Plants; containing the Aloes, Ficoids (or
Fig-Marigolds) Torch-Thistles, Melon-Thistles, and such others as are
not capable of an _Hortus-Siccus_. Engraved, from the Originals, on
Copper-Plates, with their Descriptions and Manner of Culture. By
_Richard Bradley_, Fellow of the Royal Society.


5. The Plague at _Marseilles_ considered; with Remarks upon the Plague
in general, shewing its Cause and Nature of Infection; with necessary
Precautions to prevent the spreading of that direful Distemper.
Published for the Preservation of the People of _Great Britain_. Also
some Observations taken from an Original Manuscript of a Graduate
Physician, who resided in _London_ during the whole time of the late
Plague, _Anno 1665._ By _Richard Bradley_, F. R. S. 3d Edition. Price 1
_s._

[Illustration]


_In the Press, and Speedily will be Published_,

A Philosophical Treatise of Agriculture; or, a new Method of cultivating
and increasing of all sorts of Trees, Shrubs, and Flowers: being a very
curious Work, enriched with useful Secrets in Nature, for helping the
Vegetation of all Sorts of Trees and Plants, and for fertilizing the
most stubborn Soils. By _G. A. Agricola_, M.D. and Doctor in Philosophy
at _Ratisbonne_. Translated from the _German_, with Remarks. Adorned
with Cuts. The whole revised and compared with the Original: Together
with a Preface, confirming this new Method. By _Richard Bradley_, F. R.
S.

[Illustration]


FOOTNOTES:

[A] _See Discourse on Coffee_, p. 4, 5.

[B] _A small_ Turkish _Coin, worth about three Farthings._








End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Virtue and Use of Coffee With
Regard to the Plague And Other In, by Richard Bradley

